---
title: "The schedule is published"
layout: "post"
permalink: /schedule/
published: true 
ref: cfp
lang: en
---

## 2018 Pass the SALT Schedule

---

The Pass the SALT (Security And Libre Talks) schedule is now **published**. We have very proud about the trust that all the submitters to our Call for Papers put in this first edition of PTS. We want thank all of them and we will try to do our best to deserve this trust. And now, just enjoy this schedule and come to **share knowledge and cooperate**. 

## Monday 2th of July, 2018 

* 14:00 - 14:15: **launching talk**<br/>
<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397; color: white; background-color: #dc2430; padding-left: 10px"> <h3>Linux Distribution Security</h3></div>
* 14:15 - 14:50: [**Debian security team:** behind the curtains](#debiansecteam) <br />
  by **Yves-Alexis Perez** (Security researcher and developer, Debian security team)
<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397; color: white; background-color: #dc2430; padding-left: 10px"> <h3>Reverse and Low-Level Session</h3></div>
* 14:50 - 15:25: [**[Yet to Be Confirmed] Frida2r2**](#frida2r2) <br />
  by **Ole** (Frida developer) and **Pancake** (r2 developer)
* 15:25 - 16-00: [**Static instrumentation** based on executable file formats](#instrumentation)<br />
  by **Romain Thomas** (Lief developer, Quarkslab)
<div style="padding-left:40px"><div style="text-align: center; font-weight: bold">~~~ afternoon pause ~~~</div></div>
* 16:20 - 16:55: [**RetDec**: Machine-Code Analysis With Open-Source Decompiler](#retdec)) <br />
  by **Jakub Kroustek** (RetDec developer, Avast Software) and **Peter Matula** (RetDec main developer, Avast software)
* 16:55 - 17:30: [**Spectre:** are there Spectre-based malware on your Android smartphone?](#spectre)
  by **Axelle Aprvrille** (Senior researcher, Fortinet) 
* 17:30 - 17:50: [**Cutter:** A graphical user interface for radare2](#cutter)<br />
  by **Antide Petit** (Cutter developer)

## Tuesday 3rd of July, 2018 

<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397; color: white; background-color: #dc2430; padding-left: 10px"> <h3>Network Security Session</h3></div>

* 09:00 - 09:35: [**Traffic filtering at scale on linux**](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Francois Serman** (OVH)
* 09:35 - 10:10: [**Performance with a S like Security:** the eBPF XDP case](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Eric Leblond** (Suricata core developer, Stamus Networks)
<div style="padding-left:40px"><div style="text-align: center; font-weight: bold">~~~ morning pause ~~~</div></div>
* 10:30 - 11:05: [**KEYNOTE: a 10 years journey in Linux firewalling**](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Pablo Neira Ayuso** (Head of Netfilter core team)
* 11:05 - 11:40: [**Full packet capture for the masses**](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Xavier Mertens** (Security consultant, ISC SANS handler)
* 11:40 - 12:15: **Rumps session**

<div style="padding-left:40px"><div style="text-align: center; font-weight: bold">~~~ MID DAY BREAK ~~~</div></div>

<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397; color: white; background-color: #dc2430; padding-left: 10px"> <h3>Web Security Session</h3></div>

* 14:15 - 14:50: [**Security and Self-Driving Computers**](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Stefan Eissing** (Mod_md developer (Let's Encrypt Apache module))
* 14:50 - 15:25: [**Snuffleupageaus:** killing bug classes and virtual patching the rest](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1)<br />
  by **Julien Voisin**, **Thibault Koechlin**, **Simon Magnin-Feysot** (Snuffleupageaus developers, NBS Systems)<br />
* 15:25 - 15:45: [**Vulture**: Preview of Vulture's upcoming web filtering engine](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Jérémie JOURDIN** and **Hugo Soszynski** (Vulture developers, aDvens)
* 15:45 - 16:05: [**SecureDrop**, for whistle-blowers](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **François Poulain** (SecureDrop community member & admin) and **Loïc Darchary** (SecureDrop developer)
<div style="padding-left:40px"><div style="text-align: center; font-weight: bold">~~~ afternoon pause ~~~</div></div>

<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397; color: white; background-color: #dc2430; padding-left: 10px"> <h3>IAM Session</h3></div>
* 16:25 - 17:00: [**LemonLDAP::NG:** Second factor authentication (2FA)](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/2)<br />
  by **Clément Oudot** (LemonLDAP::NG developer) and **Xavier Guimard** (LemonLDAP::NG creator and developer) <br />
* 17:00 - 17:35: [**[Yet to Be Confirmed] No way JOSE!** Lessons for authors and implementers of open standards](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1)<br />
  by **Fraser Tweedale** (Haskel Jose library maintainer, Redhat)
* 17:35 - 17:55: [**FreeIPA**](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1)<br />
  by **Florence Blanc-Renaud** (Senior Software Engineer working on FreeIPA, Redhat)


## Wednesday 4th of July, 2018 

<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397; color: white; background-color: #dc2430; padding-left: 10px"> <h3>Threat Intel Session</h3></div>

* 09:00 - 09:35: [**Fail frequently to avoid disaster, or how to organically build an open threat intelligence sharing standard to keep the intelligence community free and sane!**](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Alexandre Dulaunoy** (CIRCL) and **Andras Iklody** (CIRCL)
* 09:35 - 10:10: [**The story of Greendale**](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Thomas Chopitea** (Forensics investigator and engineer, Google)
<div style="padding-left:40px"><div style="text-align: center; font-weight: bold">~~~ morning pause ~~~</div></div>

<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397; color: white; background-color: #dc2430; padding-left: 10px"> <h3>Secure Programming and Architecture Session</h3></div>
* 10:30 - 11:05: [**Internals of Landlock:** a new kind of Linux Security Module leveraging eBPF](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Mickaël Salaün** (Security researcher, ANSSI)
* 11:05 - 11:40: [**Secure programming are slow - really ?**](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Pierre Chifflier** (Head of the intrusion detection research lab, ANSSI)
* 11:40 - 12:15: [**Immutable infrastructure and zero trust networking:** designing your system for resilience](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Geoffroy Couprie** (Security researcher and developer, Clever Cloud)

<div style="padding-left:40px"><div style="text-align: center; font-weight: bold">~~~ MID DAY BREAK ~~~</div></div>

<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397; color: white; background-color: #dc2430; padding-left: 10px"> <h3>IoT Security Session</h3></div>

* 14:15 - 14:50: [**IoT Honeypot**, new types of attacks](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Sebastien Tricaud** (Open source and security pro and enthusiast, Splunk)
* 14:50 - 15:25: [**Io(M)T Security:** A year in review](https://2018.pass-thePentester-salt.org/cfp/paper/1) <br />
  by **Rayna Stamboliyska** (Risk management and crisis mitigation expert) 
* 15:25 - 16:00: [**Expl-iot:** IoT Security Testing Framework](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1)<br />
  by **Aseem Jakhar** (R&D director and open source developer, Payatu software lab)<br />
<div style="padding-left:40px"><div style="text-align: center; font-weight: bold">~~~ afternoon pause ~~~</div></div>

<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397; color: white; background-color: #dc2430; padding-left: 10px"> <h3>Offensive Session</h3></div>
* 16:20 - 16:40: [**Freedom Fighting Mode -** Open Source Hacking Harness](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/2)<br />
  by **Ivan Kwiatkowski** (Pentester and malware analyst, Kaspersky) <br />
* 16:40 - 17:00: [**Open Hardware for (software) offensive security**](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1)<br />
  by **Antoine Cervoise** (IT security engineer, NTT Security)
* 17:00 - 17:20: [**Shadow on the Wall** -  Risks and Flaws with Shadowsocks](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1)<br />
  by **Niklas Abel** (Pentester and security auditor, X41)
* 17:20 - 17:40: [**Glassfish** from (IN)Secure admin](https://2018.pass-the-salt.org/cfp/paper/1)<br />
  by **Jeremy Mousset** (Pentester, Vente-privee.com)


<br><br>
<h2>Talks description</h2>
<br>

<a name="debiansecteam"></a>
<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397;  border-top: 1px solid #7b4397; color: #dc2430; ; padding-left: 10px"> <h3><strong>Debian security team: behind the curtains</strong></h3></div>
This talks will present the Debian security team: the people, the roles, the workflows. It'll also details the handling of vulnerabilities, both public and private/embargoed ones.
<br /><br />
<strong>Yves-Alexis Perez</strong>
<br />
<i>Yves-Alexis is a debian developper, member of the security team. He works at ANSSI as head of the Hardware and Software architecture lab. As such, he's interested in platform security and the ways hardware and software interactions are relevant to security. More specifically, he's interested in how devices can influence the security of the platform as a whole.</i>

<a name="instrumentation"></a>
<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397;  border-top: 1px solid #7b4397; color: #dc2430; ; padding-left: 10px"> <h3><strong>Static instrumentation based on executable file formats</strong></h3></div>
Many instrumentation techniques are based on modifying code or system environment of the target. It can be suitable for scenarios but it could not work under certain circumstance (integrity checking, non-rooted environment...) In this talk we propose similar techniques by only modifing the executable format. This enables to be architecture independent, injection and hooking does not require privileged environment.
<br /><br />
<strong>Romain Thomas</strong>
<br />
<i>Romain Thomas is a security engineering working on the development of new tools to assist security researchers. He is also interested in Android internal, (de)obfuscation and software protections. He previously contributed to the Triton project, a dynamic binary analysis framework.</i>

<a name="retdec"></a>
<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397;  border-top: 1px solid #7b4397; color: #dc2430; ; padding-left: 10px"> <h3><strong>Machine-Code Analysis With Open-Source Decompiler RetDec</strong></h3></div>
When we need to deeply analyze a binary application (e.g. for malware dissection, vulnerability research, code optimization), static code analysis is what we use most of the time. However, static analysis of machine-code is usually not an easy task. It is actually a tough one in case of malware analysis. Luckily, existing machine-code decompilers help with this task significantly. On the other hand, the most well-known decompilers are either proprietary, cannot be easily modified for a given task, or both.

In this talk, we would like to depict our machine-code decompiler called RetDec (Retargetable Decompiler) that we are developing in Avast since 2011 and which we have open-sourced a few months ago under the MIT license. Its primary goal is, of course, decompilation of binary (malicious) applications, but its components can be also used for other tasks, such as disassembly, extraction of basic blocks, or initial assessment of malware samples.
<br /><br />
<strong>Jakub Kroustek</strong>
<br />
<i>Jakub Kroustek is leading the threat intelligence team at Avast and previously at AVG, 7 years in total. Jakub is a malware analyst and reverse engineer with expertise in ransomware, botnets, and cryptography. He has his Ph.D. for a machine-code analysis.</i>
<br /><br />
<strong>Peter Matula</strong>
<br />
<i>Peter Matula is a senior software developer at Avast Software. He focuses on reverse-engineering research and is currently the main developer of the RetDec decompiler. He received his MSc. degree from the Faculty of Information Technology, Brno University of Technology, Czech Republic.</i>

<a name="spectre"></a>
<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397;  border-top: 1px solid #7b4397; color: #dc2430; ; padding-left: 10px"> <h3><strong>Are there Spectre-based malware on your Android smartphone?</strong></h3></div>
The Spectre attack has had massive coverage, and I assume (nearly) everybody at Pass The Salt will have heard of it. This talk is not yet another explanation of Spectre, nor generic advice of what to do. Rather, this talk is oriented on implementation issues and answering 2 simple questions (which haven’t been addressed yet to my knowledge): 1. Is your Android smartphone vulnerable to Spectre or not? ARM has published a security advisory with a list of vulnerable processors. We’ll see that the answer isn’t as simple as checking the list. . . 2. How can we detect malware using Spectre, and are there any? The media have been quiet about that. Working for an AV company, that’s perhaps something I can contribute to.
<br /><br />
<strong>Axelle Apvrille</strong>
<br />
<i>Axelle Apvrille is a happy senior researcher at Fortinet, where she hunts down any strange virus on so-called 'smart' devices.</i>

<a name="cutter"></a>
<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397;  border-top: 1px solid #7b4397; color: #dc2430; ; padding-left: 10px"> <h3><strong>A graphical user interface for radare2: Cutter</strong></h3></div>
Radare2 is a free and open-source reverse engineering framework, which is becoming more and more popular. One of its main criticisms is that it is only usable within a terminal (CLI), and that the commands are not intuitive, making the learning curve steep. The Cutter project was created to provide an easy-to-use, but still powerful, interface to radare2 for new users. This is done with a native graphical user interface made in Qt and C++.

The goal of the talk is to present radare2 history, along with the common complaints from users, and how we try to overcome those with Cutter. I'll be presenting the features that are already implemented, the way we allow our users to script the interface, and obviously the missing features that we will implement in a near future.

While Cutter is still under heavy development, it's becoming more and more user-friendly and easy to use. It is becoming a great alternative to other reverse engineering tools.
<br /><br />
<strong>Antide Petit</strong>
<br />
<i>Antide Petit is an infosec student. He has done in 2017 a GSoC about Cutter and then became its maintainer.</i>

   
<a name="XXX"></a>
<div style="border-left: 5px solid #7b4397;  border-top: 1px solid #7b4397; color: #dc2430; ; padding-left: 10px"> <h3><strong>XXX</strong></h3></div>
XXX
<br /><br />
<strong>XXX</strong>
<br />
<i>XXX</i>